[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Traditionally, the dark
night of the soul is a moment
in which you lose all sense of
connection with the presence
of the higher order of being.
What you formerly believed,
it's gone out the window.
Your old identity has
begun to evaporate.
The new identity
hasn't emerged yet.
So you're in that
proverbial no man's land.
And that can last for
a short period of time
or it can last for a
long period of time.
And the dark night of the
soul, understand, is not--
you don't have a dark
night of the soul
because someone died or you
lost a job or you got a divorce.
That's regular sadness.
That's the sadness
of loss and sadness
of somebody dying, the sadness
of a structure in your life.
Dark night of the soul
is something different.
You could have nothing
wrong in your life,
and then suddenly
there's a bereftness.
That generally means
that either through grace
or through spiritual practice,
past life or present,
your new identity is emerging.
But it hasn't emerged yet and
you're not who you used to be.
So you don't know who you.
You don't even know
what you believe.
And in the dark night, if
you can ask a question,
such as, what quality do
I need to give birth to
to have peace of mind if
this were to last forever?
You start to work with
something like that.
Now why is that important?
Generally, when an individual
is in a dark night,
they go through
wishful thinking.
I wish I wasn't here.
I wish I wasn't who I was.
I wish I'd done
something differently.
I wish I'd made
different decisions,
I'd made poor choices.
You know, it's a kind
of a wishful thinking.
None of those things
can ever happen
because you are who you
are, you are where you are,
and this is what's happening.
So to the degree that
you can pull yourself out
of wishful thinking and ask
a different kind of question,
when the dark night
is over, you found
that you are a little bit
higher in your transformation
because you didn't waste the
time asking futile questions.
You want to ask an
empowering question.
And most people
when they're going
through something
that's debilitating,
they'll ask a
disempowering question.
They'll ask from a victim state.
Why me?
Who's to blame?
What's wrong?
And the mind would just go rapid
with those kind of questions,
but they don't
take you anywhere.
They take you on
a downward spiral,
or you will end up mining the
database of human consciousness
of all of the negativity that's
ever happened on the planet.
Why me?
What's wrong?
Who's to blame?
You'll just pull in all the
frequency of all the suffering
that's happening on the planet.
So you have to ask an
empowering question,
a question such as, you know,
what good is present that I
cannot see right now?
What's seeking to emerge
in my life right now?
What gift is being
born in me right now?
What talent is being honed?
What power is being cultivated?
What's trying to unfold?
What am I seeking to
give birth to right now?
Because as you know,
when birth has happened,
it's very intense.
It's a very intense period
of time in a woman's life
and in the infant's life.
And so in the same
way, we're always
giving birth to something.
And so we have to ask a
different kind of question.
Now here's the deal.
The universal presence,
by whatever name
you choose to call it--
I call the presence
limitless love intelligence,
or a presence that's
never an absence.
It's life itself.
This universal presence,
through the universe
and the universal law, will
answer any question you ask.
So if you ask
what's wrong, it'll
tell you all the
things that are wrong.
If you ask what's
trying to be born,
it will begin to
show you potential
that's within you that's
seeking to emerge.
And when your attention
starts to shift more
towards the potential
rather than the problem,
you begin to understand
a universal truth--
potential is always
bigger than problem.
Your potential is always bigger
than any problem you're facing.
You start to see your potential.
And when you focus on that,
the answers from that realm
start to come as guidance,
wisdom, transforming knowledge,
spontaneous goodness,
insight, ahas.
perception changes simply by
asking a question that empowers
you rather than takes you down.
The perception of
the victim is largely
different from the perception of
the individual that is taking--
having more dominion
over their awareness.
It's the difference of looking
at life from the valley
or from the mountaintop.
When you're looking
at life in the valley,
life is totally different.
You see the obstacle.
You see obstacles,
hindrances, obstructions.
When you go to
the top and you're
able to look down at everything,
life is quite different.
So when you ask a
different kind of question,
your perception expands
and you see life
from a much wider
expanse, and you're
able to make more deliberate
choices from that awareness.
The trick is in the
moment of your angst,
in the moment when
it's difficult,
ask the question, you know,
what's trying to be born here?
What gift is trying to be given?
And that's when you want to ask.
It's easy to ask when
everything is going well.
But you want to ask the
question on such a regular basis
that when things seem
to be contracting,
you're still asking
empowering question.
And that becomes a
practice, and then that
becomes a way of
life, and then you
start to develop the
capacity to deeply listen.
You're always in
a listening space.
You know the guidance
is here, wisdom is here,
direction is here.
That underlying question
keeps your listening faculty
acute and available.
[MUSIC PLAYING]